[Music]
We are praying to the Buddha
for his
protection.
Namo
Buddha
Shakyamuni. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]
Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Dear
all,
we have practiced for half a day today.
Half a day is spent preparing our living quarters.
So, do you see
that our needs are truly
simple? Do
you see that it's simple?
Very
simple. To live,
our needs are very simple, but
we are bound
by attachment. For example, I have a husband, so
two people can live like this.
No, I have children, so I ca
n't live like this. Do you see? So,
if
impermanence comes now, will we regret that?
What about the big house? Will we regret it?
Have we seen the self-binding yet?
From here, we can see that
our karmic connections are just
about karmic connections.
Our karmic connection with those who become monks/
nuns is different, isn't it?
This connection requires cultivating so
much merit to attain it,
everyone. A person who becomes a monk/nun and is
content with everything they have,
having given alms and shared with others for many lifetimes, right? They don't cling to anything, they don't
possess, only then can they be joyful
about leaving home. But if, for
many lifetimes, they still have attachments and
clinging, then the karmic connection to becoming a monk/
nun is difficult, remember that, everyone.
So today, I will read a sutra, and I will explain it
clearly to you all. If
we, as lay people,
don't give birth to ego, don't look down on others,
then we receive blessings. But if
we just do good
deeds and look down on the monks/nuns, then we
suffer karmic consequences because of ignorance; we don't
understand the cause of
this disrespect. That's right,
because we don't understand the karmic connection.
For example, I'll
just say, a person without a family...
Wherever one goes, they feel very comfortable,
not bound by any karmic ties.
However, for someone who already has a
family, all karmic ties bind them, making it
difficult to leave. Whether they can leave comfortably or
not is already different. Is
n't that right, everyone? We need to accumulate a lot of
merit to fully depart
in the karmic
state of liberation, free from the shackles of the world.
We must understand that today
we have this karmic connection, only then can we
understand
what kind of people the monks are. And then, I will read
to the audience: Having the karmic connection to leave home, what
kind of monks are they to
live and practice? What karmic connections
lead them to live in
solitude in the forest? That's
another very important karmic connection.
Today, I invite the audience to
listen to the sutra we have already learned.
This is what the teacher has taught us. But in
reality, when we practice Buddhism,
if we
don't practice what we learn, it just slips
away and we don't remember it. But if we...
We learn and practice, and we
can never forget it because it has become
perfected. We
think about it daily, we have become proficient in the
method. All that's missing is the wording;
otherwise,
we can remember and express it
through our writing.
Today, Yen is reading the Sutra of
Five Types of People Living in the Forest. Let's
see which type of person we are in these three days, living in the forest. The
Vietnamese Buddhist Canon, Anguttara Nikaya, Chapter 2, Section 5, Forest Chapter.
Once upon a time, the Buddha, in Kola, called
the bhikkhus to live in the forest. What are the five types of people living in the forest? The foolish and ignorant, living in
the forest; the evil-natured, living in the forest; the restless, disturbed mind,
living in the
forest; living in the forest
because they heard the
Buddha and his disciples praise them; living in the forest because they have few desires, because they know
contentment, because they have relinquished their desires, because they are far from the world, because they seek good deeds.
Of
these five types of people living in the forest, the bhikkhus follow the category of people living in the
forest: those who have few desires, because they know contentment, because they have relinquished their desires, because they are far from the
world, because they seek good deeds. The
bhikkhus are the most devoted disciples.  Tonight, Thang is the top expert,
and Yen will analyze and teach them. The stupid,
ignorant people who live in the forest... That means
these people have no possessions, absolutely nothing.
They just
want to live in the forest, like those
who go into the forest. They
have no possessions, secondly, they only go into the forest
for fun and enjoyment. There are many
people who gather in the forest,
steal, and then return to the
forest to live. That means they steal everything,
do all sorts of evil things, and then go back to the
forest to live. That's the
stupid, ignorant, and ignorant type who doesn't understand anything.
Those with evil and wicked natures who live in the forest... those are the
stupid, ignorant people I just mentioned.
They only go into the forest to live, meaning they do
n't know what to live for. In
a story, there's a father and son... has
anyone read that story? Yen
only knows a story someone told her, that
is, on television they said there were
two people who, because of
war or something, went into the
forest to live.  Later,
people found the father and son in the
forest and let them out, but they could
n't adapt and went back into the
forest. That's the first category, meaning they
have no intelligence, they don't know what to
live for, they just live for the sake of living, that's all. They're just
foolish, living in
the forest, eating and drinking whatever they can find, living
without purpose,
living without thinking. Then there's the
second category, the evil-minded, wicked type, as I'll
explain to the public: they
live in the forest, then go out to steal, rob, do
all sorts of things, and then go back into the forest. That's the second category, they
use the forest as a
place of refuge. That's hiding,
hiding in the forest. That's the second category.
So we're not the first category, are we? We're not the second,
right? Then there's the
second and third category, the one with a disturbed
mind, living in the forest. What is a disturbed mind? It's
someone who doesn't practice spiritual cultivation but goes into
the forest to call themselves a teacher. Can you
imagine that?  I haven't heard anyone
say that practicing in the forest, in a desolate place,
is the highest level of enlightenment. It's just that they know how to
live like that. And so, they go up to the forest
to live, to be
praised by others, to look down on everyone outside, thinking
they are practitioners, that they are skilled, that
they can live in the forest.
Even among the Buddhist
monks, there are many such people. Many of them live in the forest and only go out there to seek refuge. The other day, I went to a monastery, or rather, I went up to the forest to practice with the monks. In
that forest, there were many
non-Buddhists. In Vietnam, we have
many non-Buddhists; they go up there as
ascetics. They also live in the forest, they
eat very hard, they climb the forest
much higher than we do. That is,
this place is no less dense than a jungle, and they live
in caves. They practice, they live
to practice, to create
those things. For example, the mugwort plant. The
other day, I went there to
practice, to create those things, those spells and incantations.
We live in the forest, the Taoist
practitioners cultivate spells and incantations. So, those who
live in the mountains like that do
evil deeds. The public sees evil deeds,
but they don't live for
their own liberation, but live with a mind that cries out, "
I am going to rule this world, to save this person, to
save that person, to
save everyone, to save everyone." With
such a mind,
they live in the forest with
such a mind. They live in the forest. Furthermore, there are those who live in
the forest because they hear about the Buddha's teachings and
are praised by his disciples. There are those who live in the forest because they have few
desires, because they know contentment, because they are cautious, because they
seek good deeds.
We hope that our monks
also go into the forest for this reason, and
we also go into the forest for this reason. So
we must see if we are like
this. Now, let me tell the
public this so that we can
know ourselves.
Firstly, those who live in the forest have few desires, meaning
our minds are not attached to
material things.
For example, poor people live in
miserable places, but their hearts are always focused
on material possessions. They wish they had
wealth. They see rich people, they
see people who are well-provided for,
who are comfortable, who have everything they need, and
they
live that way. But what do they still desire? They
desire the growth of their desires, right? And what
about people whose hearts are already full of material
possessions and wealth? That is,
we have plenty of material things, we have plenty of wealth,
but we live with less
greed for those things. I'm
just saying this to the public so
they can see if they have less desire. For
example, regarding food, we are content with food,
eating only to satisfy our
physical needs. We don't crave this delicious food,
not that delicious food.
That's having less desire,
right? And what about clothes?
Just enough to cover and warm the body,
not for beauty. That's having less
desire. That means we
just use them to nourish the body, that's enough.
Sleeping is just enough to sustain this body,
and I don't even wish to sleep
more because I'm lazy, and because I'm lazy, I
like to sleep a lot, right? If you're lazy, you
like to sleep. There's another type who isn't lazy
but is greedy for money, so they like to work and
don't like to rest. That's lust,
folks. That's lust. So let's see if
our minds have less lust. Does our mind
aim for less lust? For example, when we
see others rich, our minds are
normal because we don't crave that;
we only crave enough to sustain
this body. But those who feel
sad and inferior when they see someone richer, for
example, seeing an SH motorbike while they ride
a CP 50, they feel miserable. They can't
live in the forest yet. They see that
their parents have a large dowry, but they
already have a house.
But they still have to consider
which part of the family they belong to. They
can't live in the forest, right? They
already have a house, but now their parents
have a huge dowry worth
tens or twenty billion.  There are five brothers in the family,
but you have to consider which corner
is yours.
If you keep comparing and calculating, you'll
never finish in a lifetime, but you still have to take it. You ca
n't not take it because you're a child, so day and
night your mind is restless. If you're restless like that,
can you live in the forest? No, you can't
live in the forest. That's why you have to consider how you would live in the forest. And
that's because you have little desire. Now, it's because
you know when you have enough. Knowing when you have enough means that whatever you currently possess is enough for you. There's
nothing you don't crave. It's really like this:
That craving causes
suffering. Craving is different from wishing. The teacher has explained it
clearly. Craving is
what doesn't belong to you, beyond
your capabilities, yet you desire it day and night.
For example, Yen earns 3
million a month, but she's always passing
by that villa, always thinking about
how she can have
that villa. That means she's never at peace,
always gazing at that villa,
and then she starts thinking...  Looking at other people's houses,
seeing their families because they are rich,
they assume they have a different lifestyle. Then they
start criticizing them, saying, "You're rich, so you have that kind of life. But what about when you're
poor like me? Let's see
how you fare." That's greed, you understand? And then there's the
desire, the desire to
have children. Then I work
to the best of
my ability, and whatever
wealth I acquire, I will enjoy it
without greed and without suffering. That's what you understand,
everyone. Greed leads to suffering, but desire doesn't lead to suffering. You understand? So, in life, everyone has desires. That is, we see something good and we desire it, we strive for it. Yen will tell you more
stories, but there are many, and Yen will
only tell the main points.
This is something Yen encounters almost every
day, because it's through her messages:
"Sister, my husband
is a drunkard, and my
wife is very distressed."  I've said it
so many times, no! Husband and
wife constantly arguing and fighting is
so
miserable, it makes the children suffer too.
I've told both sets of parents,
but they don't defend me.
Even my in-laws curse me, saying my parents are unreasonable. Then I told them to just be
happy with
our fate. Do you all agree?
Now, if you marry a man who's a drunkard and you try to stop
him, can you do that? No. And
now, if you
stop him from gambling, will he listen? No. Then you
tell his
grandmother, will that change the situation? No, it won't. And then you tell her, "
Grandma, if you
can't teach your son, then you're even
worse off." So, if it's
someone who gambles and drinks, what do you do?
You work hard to earn money and save it
to raise your children. But if someone has money, they can drink. If they have money, they can
drink. If they don't, then so be it.
And everyone is like that. And everyone declares, "
Whoever benefits from whom, pays." That's how it is.
Just live happily with your life. Do
you all agree? As Buddhists,
we must understand this.
As Buddhists, we shouldn't
covet what doesn't belong to
us, right? For example, look over here at
our neighbor's husband. He's always
bringing money home to his wife.
I'm already suffering enough, and yet, I don't
expect our neighbor to bring
me money, do I? He brings
money home to his wife, but my husband
is like carrying two bottles in his hands,
right? He's not carrying a cable in his hand, right? That's other
people's husbands. That's karma, you see?
Two bottles in his hands is definitely
my husband, right?
Why do I say we
know enough? It means we know that this is
our karmic force, which cannot be changed
unless we patiently change
karma. Then maybe people will
change. There are many things that change,
and when I explain it here, many people might
not understand and say it's
wrong. I'm just explaining it this way.  The most
memorable thing in my life is having to admit
that at 75, I had a husband who was both a drunkard and a gambler.
So, I know when enough is enough. That means I
know when I have enough, and
the people around me will either transform
right here in
this world, or they will be transformed after their
physical body and life end. Isn't that right?
We know how to cultivate ourselves to benefit
those living right next to us. So,
when we understand the karmic connections of
those around us, and we
free ourselves from the mind of
cultivation, then those around us will
all benefit. Benefit, right? So,
we usually know how to have few desires, that we have enough, and that's
more. Because of the reduction, that is, we
live in the forest and we reduce
this... reduce about reality and about things, about
eating and what? About sleeping? Of course, when you
live in the forest, no one has money, and as for
fame, as soon as you get it, you give it up. It's
not that you live in the forest because of
arrogance. Because I live in the
forest, so I look down on others. That's not
right, is it? A person who knows how to cultivate themselves will
never be arrogant. If
...  Those who live in the forest, who are as well-off
as in this fourth part, never
insult because their minds are directed towards
reducing desires, towards having less attachment, and then knowing contentment,
so they no longer insult. But because they
don't know contentment, because they don't reduce desires, that's why they
insult. Is that clear?
Furthermore, they live with detachment. Detachment is like
this:
Because we know our karma, because
out there we will become attached. For example,
we interact daily
with worldly affairs and people who
talk to us all day about business, about profit and
loss. Our minds
will not be at peace in our
desire to overcome desires, right?
Then we listen to their stories: "I just
came back from here," "I just came back from there," "
This place is very beautiful," "That place is very beautiful," and so on. Then there
are
young people saying, "This girl is very pretty," "That girl is very
pretty." So monks
usually distance themselves from worldly people,
not listening to their stories about desires and
attachments because their minds are
still weak when they first start practicing.  They only have
aspirations, those who are new to practicing only have
aspirations, they only seek liberation. The
Dharma of Detachment is the Dharma that must be practiced
immediately. Therefore, we, as
Buddhists, are the first to have aspirations. What is this?
This outfit? Is that
right? Clothing that is too revealing, is that enough? Can we
send off the nun? We've already sent off the nun. Because
those people don't come to
talk to us. They
see us, they get
bored, they don't talk anymore,
right? They have to find someone like
Thanh Lu Tu. Then, those people, for example, those who are young and
energetic, have to be rejuvenated before they'll come to
talk, right? Hair is all short. Then,
dressing like this and
that,
then
they'll be able to connect with each other.
But now, a
very flirtatious guy sees this dark-skinned woman, and... well, that's it,
right? Dressed in
such dirty clothes, with one leg shorter than the other... well, that's
it.  Not coming anymore, that's
detachment, you know that, right?
It means desiring detachment, that
people don't want anyone to come
to them to increase their desires. A
person with such a mind could
live in the forest. That is, wanting
detachment, in Buddhism there are
three parts: first, detachment; second,
liberation; third, cessation. First,
all great disciples of Buddha must practice
the Dharma of liberation, that is,
detachment themselves so that desires do not
increase, do not grow. If you
yourself still find yourself attracted to
beauty, then first, detach yourself from the mirror.
Do you see clearly? If you've lost the
mirror, how can you look in it when it's wrinkled and shriveled? The
mirror will never exist in this
world. And if you have a mirror,
you can never hope to get
rid of beauty. And if you look in the
mirror several times a day and still can't, that's just what I'm
saying so that everyone understands about
those who have renounced worldly life. As for us lay
people...  Wherever you go, you have to be
proper for a layperson, but in the forest
it's different. Yen is telling the truth, everyone.
Yen doesn't have any kind of LC (Law of Consciousness) at all, it's just like
this, that's it. That's it, no
need for anything else, no need to know if your face is crooked, round,
square, or anything. That means
you have to be proficient in this Dharma of the distant realm. They won't be troubled when they go to this place
or that place, they won't be troubled. Everyone,
understand? Now, everyone, just measure
your mind from
before until now. Before, you
had to observe everything,
right? From the beginning of your face to the end of your eyes,
before stepping out the door. That's how it was before, and it wasn't any
different, was it? Then,
when you start practicing asceticism, after wearing those
clothes for a long time, you have to put them in your
bag to go to the temple. Yen, the first one, back then,
Yen Kim, at the temple, even in jeans, still
wore tight-fitting clothes, and a
normal shirt. Nobody taught me that. I knew about the temple,
nobody taught me that, everyone. I also
followed the Dharma group, but I was
n't allowed to talk about this issue.
Many people just told her to pull
him out of the temple, that's
why even now, everyone
tells her that she's very understanding because she
hasn't had the chance to retake the exam yet, and she still has the
mindset that when she goes to the temple, she has to dress nicely,
otherwise the monks will say she's
too ugly. In those early days,
nobody knew.  Just follow what you see;
nobody says you have to stay
away from the monks when you go to the temple, otherwise you'll
disturb their minds. When you know how to practice, you
teach that to the community. If you
see the monks going this way, as a woman,
you have to avoid them and go that way. You're never
allowed to disturb their minds.
That means you're violating the principle of
detachment practiced by monks.
So when talking to the
monks, you shouldn't whisper or be coy.
Yen, where's Oanh?
That means when you speak, Yen, from way back, carefully and clearly, one word at a time. That means when
your words reach the person who
receives them, they immediately see your sincerity.
They can't
possibly be disturbed because your
words
naturally make them upright and proper.
Your words make them
stand
up and understand. It's difficult for a woman to cultivate
such a way of speaking.
It's not easy, is it? That's right, it's
difficult. Speaking decisively,
say what needs to be said, and don't say what doesn't need to be said.
Don't talk too much.
Say what people need to hear, what's
appropriate for them, and don't say what's unnecessary or inappropriate.
Gradually, you'll develop
the kind of speech that
makes others listen, helps
them overcome their karmic obstacles, and allows
them to see things from afar.
That's the kind of person who
lives in the forest because they seek goodness and do good deeds.
Now, I'll just explain
what seeking goodness means: it's about the intention, the action, the desire
for your thoughts to become good, the desire for
your words to become good, the
desire for
your actions to become good.
So now, let's all agree
that we want our intentions to become good,
not just our thoughts, but
our actions to become good. That means our actions and our bodies to become
good. So
now, I'll let the audience practice this
part today: our intentions to become good, and
our bodies to become good.  Stop living like
this. Yesterday, Yen shared this with
everyone. When we climb
this mountain, when we have the thought, "We're almost
there, it's so far," we
must know that it's within our karma. The
karmic force
creates that thought. Do you understand? Karma creates that
thought.
What kind of karma creates this? It's the
karma of
laziness and attachment. Laziness and
attachment—lazy people are the
ones who will give rise to selfishness.
Right? That lazy person will
see a dirty place and
avoid it, not wanting to go there. But a
person who isn't lazy and doesn't attach themselves to it can
practice giving. For
example, the path leading down to the
toilet—Yen is just saying this so
everyone can contemplate their own karma. I
don't know how many people have gone
there. When Yen went down there, she
saw that everyone was avoiding it, staying on this side
and that side, but they did
n't think about it. It's not that they were lazy, they
didn't think about it.  That if we use this country to clear
all the grass around here into the middle of the
road, the mud will be gone and we
will have a place to walk
easily. If we say it now, people usually
say, "I didn't think of anything, I didn't think of anything,"
but what prevents people from thinking of
things is laziness and not knowing how to give alms
from many lifetimes, so they don't think of
things, understand? What about things that people
do think of? Because in many lifetimes they have
done good for many people, that is, they know how to
make offerings. When they see
this, they immediately know
what the community will gain from doing this.
Peace and benefit will be gained. Is
n't that the karma of knowing how to give alms? If a
person knows how to give alms like that, when they go
down there, will they be bothered? No, they won't be
bothered.
What benefit will they get from bothering the old man? And what about a person who
doesn't know how to give alms?
What will they get from going down there? Will they be bothered? So, the
community sees that the mind of giving alms has
benefits, right? It's true that the Buddha taught
that those who give alms have joyful hearts. Living
together in the same environment, the same...  The
suffering on the body is seen as muddy, dirty, and
wet, but those who know
how to give alms don't see that as suffering. They
only know that if this place is wet, we should
dry it; if this place is like this, we should dry it; if
this place isn't right, we should turn it over to
that place. This means that people are always at
peace in the present moment and
joyful with everything that comes their way,
without being troubled.
We see that, as the general public, we see, is it
possible to jump hair while practicing? It's
not that I'm sitting here,
studying books for 100 years, I know everything,
I reread everything, I know everything, I know
everything. The Zen master isn't like that. The teacher has
clearly demonstrated this. Trouble is when, in the face of
circumstances, your mind is joyful. Not only are you
not troubled, but you are
also joyful. For example,
yesterday we discussed the Buddha, and I hope that the
Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, saints, and monks will protect
us, and all the teachers, celestial beings, and
gods will grant us
faith in the Three Jewels.  So,
let us have faith
in the Three Jewels. We go up here and
see the rain and wind, we're all wet. That's how we
see the monks living in the forest, right? That's how we
see the monks outside the
temple, whether they have a place to stay or not. They
leave all the rooms for the Buddhists to stay in.
But why do the monks
go into the forest? Because they want to be far removed from the world,
right? They want to achieve
enlightenment, so they go into the forest to
live. Yen told the congregation that in 2015,
it wasn't just raining for one morning, but for
a whole month. So, is there ever a dry
day? No, there isn't a
dry day, is there? That's all. There are
days when the waterfall flows so fast you can't go
begging for alms. You can't even go begging for alms for
two days
because the water is flowing, you can't go out, you
can't go to the temple.
So, you can't live happily. Living in the Dharma, far away from the world, you don't
see anyone giving up and going home, do you? Our
monks don't see anyone abandoning their practice. They practice
normally, you see.  When
we go to the temple, we see that the monks are just acting
normally. But why is their mind so much
more joyful? It must be because of their
meditation practice,
right? Otherwise, we'd think, "
I know how to design this, I
know how to design that," and then say, "You're so
stupid, you don't know how to do it." But
remember, everyone,
people can do anything in this world, depending on their
ability. Some know how to draw, some know how to
sing, some know how to create this, some
know how to create that, airplanes,
space travel, and so much more. But winning against a single
mind is rare. Isn't that
right? That's why
winning against a thousand
armies is not as good as winning against oneself.
Just two people walking together,
one clinging to the other's hand, and if they fall, no matter how close they are, they'll
still lose their
minds.
The monks don't have that kind of mind, do they? And what about the
monks? Be careful, are they okay?
Isn't that different? That requires a very long period of practice
to achieve such a state of mind,
right?  Two
friends called it a louse bite, and then they went to perform the ritual.
But if it harmed them,
they would just yell at them.
How could they see where the woman's eyes
were? That's how they managed to say that. Then they
switched to another saying, "What's wrong with
music?"
How much effort, how much merit, how much charity, how much
practice, how much giving, how much merit, how much generosity, how much merit, how much giving, how much merit, how much charity, how much merit, how much they gave, that's
why they switched from one saying to another. That's why when
we look at people, we have to look at how they
care for others, whether they
can give charity or not,
not just giving charity and then being arrogant and wiping away people's tears. That's for what? For fame, not for the sake of long-term gain. If you are free from lust, then that's the proof, right? That is, you do something but then you hide it, you don't teach others. You're always the
best, you always think you're the best, you
don't want anyone to be better than you, so you
seize power because you are
ignorant, so you think that's
power and you push people around, right? There are some
monastic centers that have practiced for decades, and
only one or two people know how to perform the
ritual and the drum.  My friends, it's true that only the
main group and the
deputy group leader know how to do it; no one else
knows how to do it. Yen said this: "What if something happens and
I get sick? Then the
whole group will just keep
practicing, even if it means fighting, they'll keep
practicing for life." So, because
reputation is just reputation, my friends. People here consider it reputation and they hold onto it, people
there consider it reputation and they hold onto it, okay, my friends? Even
at home, they hold onto it for reputation.
For example, parents and
children. If a child doesn't
listen to what they're saying, or if they're sharing, they
say, "I'm the father, or you're the father?" "I'm the father, or you
're the father?" If you argue, that means you
have no wisdom at all.
In this matter, the child is the child, so
we, as the father, must discuss and
resolve this issue together. And in our hearts, we
must have something: "The son surpasses the father," that's what matters,
right? We must find
good deeds to do, to bring about that.
I'd praise their opinion, and
they'd say, "That's great, isn't it?"
But then I'd say, "I
'm your father, you're my father!" And
that's how they cling to the title of "father," refusing to let go.
They use their position as a father to
impose their will. In
the community, they're like that, not
listening to anyone below them, thinking they're smarter or
more capable, refusing to accept anything. Then they'd say, "You
forbid me from doing what I want, you have to do it my way, you ca
n't do it my way." When you
encounter someone who's both ignorant,
stubborn, doesn't listen to anyone, and is rebellious, then
you say, "No, you can't do it." That means
the person won't listen. Do you
understand? Arguing then only
hinders the work. And all of
us who practice asceticism are the same; we'll let go of the title. For example,
the work is like this: let's
discuss and decide whose opinion is best, and
we'll take it to make the work the best it can be.
Therefore, the ultimate liberation from
desires is very difficult.  That's not easy,
folks. To use the Dharma of Detachment, that is,
wealth, beauty, and fame—the most difficult thing is fame. The
hardest thing is money; just throw it away.
Now, for food, we eat the rice of the lay devotees. For
example, today we only need one meal. We don't need
money; we can just grab it from down there,
no problem, right? Beauty? Even if it's like
this today, it's fine. A dirty mind is fine,
no problem. A
dirty body is fine too. But fame is difficult,
folks. Anyone who violates the pursuit of
fame will find it very difficult,
increasingly difficult to let go of it. Only after letting go of fame can one let go of
the material world, folks. Uncle Hai,
where's the construction?
There's an urgent message: your wife is demanding you come home! It's binding! Where are
you, Hai?
Now your wife is demanding you come home. So
you're not going? That's why your wife is demanding you come home; it's
binding! If your fate is like
that, then you should go to the temple. Try to be
respectful to the monks and not be bound.
But you, your wife is making a fuss down there
demanding you come home. But you're here to practice, you're
being called out because your wife has grabbed your wings; you can't
fly away, you know, like a dragonfly with
wings!  So, if you try to fly but can't, just
fly away. If you have any money, just
give it all up.
Now, with this gun, the gun tells his wife, "
Let me put on wings for three days, then I'll fly up here."
After three days, he comes down. His wife
says, "Just give me three days of freedom.
Give me the wings to
put on, don't hit me, don't scold me, okay?"
That's how it is with such love, that's the suffering. He can't go anywhere, he's always with his wife, his most beloved wife. So this is also a
good omen, to let us all know that
attachment is suffering.
This is our Dharma lesson,
illustrating
[Applause].
Later, you young people, you have
wives and husbands.
If you haven't gotten married yet, if you can't become a monk, you must make
this promise to your spouse:
First, you must give up your salary completely. You must
give up your salary completely, only keeping money for
transportation and phone bills. Second,
you must give up your salary completely, remember
that? And third, because I don't have any
affairs, I have money and freedom.
I believe that whatever I do is
justified, I have my freedom.
Don't restrict me. Yen told the public that
before she got married, she also
said
that she would never be promiscuous or
have an affair. Secondly, she doesn't like playing games or spending her life with men.
Therefore, she has the right to
decide, as she said on the day they started dating. The right to
decide everything she does. Do
n't forbid her, don't forbid her. If you forbid her, then just leave, no
objections. That means just leave. If you
agree, then marry her, if you don't agree, then don't. Then she goes home,
lives comfortably with her family,
is responsible for her children, and then she can
go wherever she wants, do this and
that. Don't interfere, everyone.
And her husband also said the same thing. He said he would come and go
whenever he wanted,
never complaining. He said, "
You have to treat people the same way,
and they have to treat you
the same way." Then, when Yen decided to become a nun,
her husband said to her, "Now..."
Now she's my wife. I
say, and you have to listen. You can't go anywhere. Yen, you're
going to the temple? No, you're going! Yen
replied, "It's just that in the past, getting
married meant going to find happiness, meaning we came to
give each other happiness. But
now, if there's a happier place, we have to go
because it's just about finding happiness,
right? This place doesn't
provide happiness, and that other place is
happier, so we go there. Because
now, you're not sick, you're not in pain, you
have a salary, you can live on your own,
right? I'm not a womanizer,
right? I'm just going to find happiness. Is there
anyone here who got married and said
they weren't looking for happiness?
No, it's still about finding happiness. And
we have full responsibility for the children.
You have two legs and two arms, so you work to earn a living. I
also have two legs and two arms, so I work to earn a
living, right? We can't carry
each other around, can we? So,
young people who get married without
thinking things through will die. Yen, back then, I
don't know who influenced or castrated her, but she was quite level-headed."
Okay, guys.
When you leave, it's very
easy, not difficult at all. Because you have to be free of attachments
in your heart.
That means your own heart shouldn't be bound.
If your heart is bound, then you should be the one bound,
don't blame others for being
bound to you, right?
If you bind yourself, others will bind you,
but if you don't bind yourself, others won't be able to bind you
because there's no reason in the world to bind
you, right? First, let
me analyze this:
First, when I leave, I
won't take anything from the house or the children; it's up to
fate to decide.
If I leave, I have to raise
one child and raise another.
Isn't that what you're doing, sir? That means
your own
fate arranges things. You're saying that
if you leave, go live in a temple,
don't keep going back and forth like that.
Isn't that your whole intention? There's
no hidden meaning in it,
okay?  The conditions he set were that if everything was done, then they could leave
completely, no coming and going, and he
would raise the older child while he
raised the younger one. So, he
set the conditions, and the third condition
was that the house couldn't be sold. Meaning, back then,
he was afraid that if they separated, they would have to sell the house, and if they didn't, they
should just leave it for them to live in. Yen said
that their fate was like that,
meaning that if their hearts weren't bound,
they could leave legally,
right? Because he wanted them to leave
like that, right? And he gave
them that responsibility, so they would
fulfill that responsibility. So, is it
legal? Legal, reasonable, and
fair, no one can complain. That means you ca
n't create a feud,
right? Because it's already his will, how can you
create a feud? Here, we, the public,
must understand that
we are lay people, our karmic ties are still
very strong, and our merit is already much weaker than that of the
monks, right? And
that's not even mentioning the greedy,
old-fashioned mindset we have.  Furthermore, what we call the
karmic force of the mind's attachment and craving
creates beings with form and
appearance, clinging to oneself, husband,
children, and all sorts of bonds. That's
right, isn't it? Our karma
manifests as husband, children, and many other bonds.
Our karma is binding
our own minds, preventing us from letting go even when we have
the opportunity. The
karma is right there in our minds,
in the present moment; even when we have the opportunity to let go, we ca
n't. For example, let's say
we're all at home, doing
housework and chores. We finish everything, but
around 7 o'clock we can go chant scriptures
for the congregation. But because of a movie, the
congregation is distracted, right? That's
where the confusion lies, attachment is there,
and we don't realize it. And
here, the monks aren't being selfish. Isn't
that why they're not greedy? Actually, the
monks all have families and
parents; they could leave the temple and go home immediately,
right? But they already have
the karma to perform, so they become monks. We, on the other hand, already have
the karma of attachment,
so...  We can't go, right?
Mostly, going to the temple is
just to get a little bit of merit, that is, to be
close to the Three Jewels,
right? That means
we serve the Three Jewels, and we get a portion of
merit. We have to practice more, more until we have
enough merit to be born into the true Dharma
of the Buddha and practice this distant Dharma.
That means we have to practice giving alms to the
gods, this giving reduces
greed, reduces fame.
We have to control our fame, understand?
Otherwise, because of self-interest, we can't
stop, can we? So today,
Yen Chi Trach is giving us this Dharma lesson.
So, to have a
heart towards the Three Jewels, when
we contemplate this,
we will achieve faith, a sincere and
respectful heart towards the Three Jewels. At
our temple, we cultivate three hearts: obedience,
respect, and gratitude. Today, have we
achieved respect? Not yet? It's like
this: every half month, the earth is about to fall, right?
Every day, the rain subsides, then we go...
Just throw it away, the rice
rolls around. So, holding the bowl, you go home hungry and
eat all night, from today until tomorrow,
only thinking about rice, just the stomach, and you'll be completely
satisfied. That's all,
right?
So we know what
we respect that is worthy of respect. That's why
monks are like that, that's why they can save
spirits, not everyone
can. Right, monks?
What are spirits? They are greed,
hatred, right? A heart without
hatred, a heart of love, forgiveness, and
detachment will transform those beings. Do you understand,
monks? So that
we all have an answer. If I go
to that temple to ask for help, will I be able to?
How would I answer? "I don't know,
because I don't know what the monks at that temple are like,
right?
I only know that the monks at
our temple are able to." Then ask the
nuns who report the spirits. See if others
can get their spirits in. No,
others can't get their spirits in. The monks at our
temple can get their spirits in, but
others can't.  As for
the girls and Yen, they already have a karmic connection.
That's right, isn't it? Yen was able to enter
because the girls and Yen had a karmic connection. The
rest are monks and the temple.
Yen will tell the congregation that
once, she allowed some people to report the
deceased, and also made them vow not to rely on
others anymore.
Yen is free to make requests.  Even if you summon them, they won't come in. Do you
understand? Here, where are they? Where are those spirits? Let's see if what
Yen said is true. Do you
see? Yes, it's true. That means
Yen has to try many ways to make them not rely on
others anymore. Let's see if they don't rely on others. Just
summon them freely. These people are
like rocks; no spirits can enter them.
That's my power. Do you understand? It's my
power of cultivation, not something that just happens naturally. No, it has to be due to the power of cultivation of the monks to
summon the masses.
Yen also lets people summon spirits, and they also have their own
methods of cultivation.
Do you understand? Each person has their own way of
cultivation, depending on their own capacity.
Otherwise, how could
a normal person like
this suddenly summon spirits? The
monks are new, they go out on the street, they don't get
possessed by spirits. But those who are possessed are
different. They get possessed everywhere, right?
Here, they can go freely to cemeteries and work
hard, but no
spirits ever enter them.  Where do
we see that, right? That's the fellow practitioner doing
his duty with those girls. So, Brother Vu,
a lone leader of a Buddhist congregation in Bac Ninh, does all
sorts of things, from funeral rites and offerings to ceremonies for
a congregation there.
If someone is possessed by a spirit, they die,
right? If a spirit possesses someone, they die, right?
It takes my power for the main
leader's son to be able to enter, you know? It's not like
these people just suddenly have spirits entering and leaving. So, are we practicing
Buddhism to become
spirits? Right? I'm just a
means. That's a means,
but it requires the monk's power to
explain. So,
today, Yen will share
a part with the congregation. Now, let me ask you,
congregation: when we go
to the toilet or something, when it's really hard,
who doesn't find it disgusting how dirty the place is?
Say yes, or no.
Because some people do, some don't, right?
Some do, some don't. And
then our hands and feet get dirty, and we
have to crawl under that tarp.
Our hands and feet are still wet, wet, and sticky.
Is
n't that uncomfortable?  Okay, that's what's unpleasant, you see. The
unpleasant thing that makes you
uncomfortable, in this life, anything
called "unpleasant" will make you
uncomfortable. That is, anything called "
unpleasant" will make you uncomfortable because it makes you
uncomfortable, and that will give rise to anger and resentment. So, how do you
live here? You have to know what to do and be careful,
then you will get joy, right? Cultivating virtue is
small, but the result is big, isn't it? The result is
very big, right? Cultivating compassion is small, but the result is very
big. Oh, Buddha, what else can you
give us? We're so worried about this. We're
going to the
toilet, and then it rains, that's what's good.
At that time, what? No more covering,
just go, just go, no more covering, hurry up and
run. That's it,
but at that time, why
cover? Because there are other people
[music],
people are less scared. That also
requires a charitable heart, the karma of
wanting the masses to be happy, only then can you
do it. Yen reminded me from the moment I went to the
toilet.  Below, you can
occasionally see a piece of paper, some color, some white. That's the
greatest thing we can do.
We're practicing this kind of meditation to see ourselves, to
see ourselves. That's why Yen doesn't allow the
use of toilet paper so we can see ourselves, to see
how we feel about our dissatisfactions. Do you understand? We overcome
ourselves, we don't cling to
what we've already received. The
soft, beautiful, warm, clean blanket, the teacher... and then there's the
paper. That means our being,
wherever we go, can't be bothered by
the teacher. Do you understand? Then
we have to practice. We
have to practice. If we don't practice, we ca
n't say we've achieved
that. And this scripture, whose is it? It's the
Buddha's, we
read it, we hear it, but we haven't practiced it yet. It
's still something of the Buddha's, we remember, but we ca
n't do it. It only belongs to
this physical body, that is, the memory. We
record it, we practice it, that's the Dharma. But what is truly
ours, what
we hear and practice, it
's ours. Because of that, it will allow us
to go to the next life, to another realm.
Do you understand?  Otherwise, it's just hearing examples like
this: "Giving alms is very good," you hear
that, and you'll receive blessings and be reborn in heaven. Then
tomorrow you'll say, "Giving alms is very good," and you'll be
reborn in heaven like a potato,
tucked away in your
pocket. So, what does that giving alms and being reborn in
heaven belong to? It belongs to the Buddha, because the Buddha said, "
I'm repeating it," and "the potato in my pocket, I
haven't given it away yet, so it belongs to me,
okay, everyone?" That means you've studied and practiced, so you have to put it into practice. The word "practice" is very abstract now. Reading scriptures is considered practicing,
right? Bowing is also considered practicing, but not quite. That's just what's
called " hướng thiện" (towards goodness).
True practice is when you bow to the
Buddha, then you have to be
respectful to others. Bowing to the Buddha is to
practice a respectful heart, not to say, "I
bow to the Buddha so the Buddha gives me
blessings, so I become a living Buddha."
Everyone sees that, right? Bowing to the
Buddha is to cultivate a
respectful and humble heart, but when you go out there, you have to be
respectful and humble, then that's what truly
belongs to you.  Do you all understand? It's only through my good fortune that
I've been able to change my karma.
Otherwise, after all the Buddhist rituals, as soon as I leave the main hall,
someone might have taken my
sandals. I don't know who took mine, and
now I don't know where they are.
Why didn't I think, "Oh well, if
someone doesn't have sandals, they
can wear them, right?" Then I'd just keep saying, "This is mine, so what?" "You go first, you go first, you keep attacking me, you go down!" Even if I wore out my knees from all the Buddhist rituals, it would still be the same.
Right, without respect and humility,
the
blessings won't belong to me. We worship
Buddha to
increase our respectful and humble hearts. Do you all understand?
So today we're
here, not because we live
in that shack because we don't have
money, but because we practice letting go of
wealth and poverty, letting go of desires, distancing ourselves from desires, and being at ease with everything we have. This arises from both wisdom and enlightenment. If you just
build a house, and you have money, just build it.
Once you're out there, will it give rise to
wisdom? If you come in here, and it
rains here, and the wind blows here, then you cover
this way. A little later, when you see the wind blowing from the other side, you
have to get up and go get the tarp to
cover that other side. Because if the wind is
blowing from this side, you cover that side. A little later, while you're sleeping, if the wind blows from the other side, you have to cover that other side
to keep it in
the direction of the wind. That's how it is, right? Then
you'll get rid of your craving for sleep.
That's how it is, right? You won't get rid of your craving for sleep.
Knowing means
knowing what to do to suit
the present moment. Will your wisdom be born?
It will be born, and because you don't
crave, you won't be troubled by old age. That's
what wisdom is. Wisdom is born,
okay? So, even though
we practice a little like this, if
anyone feels too much suffering and old age, and today they have to
come up here to practice, they will turn their minds around.
Today, we are fortunate to be able to practice
like this. With
this kind of practice, we can show respect to the Three Jewels, and
we can see that among those
sitting here and in this place...  Those people over there
don't know who is less greedy,
so don't look down on anyone. Teacher, do you understand? You
don't know who is
giving up worldly desires, who is destitute, who
wants to live a life of detachment, so don't
look down on anyone, right?
Let yourself live. Don't look
down on others. When people listen to the
Dharma and begin to practice
living a life of detachment, that's their private matter.
Outside of this outward appearance, you can't see or know,
right? How can you see or
know when someone is detachment? You can't see or
know. For example, I'll just say
this: For example, I give
someone a piece of rice, a
bowl of rice, and then
that person looks down at the place where they want to eat,
that delicious place, and doesn't take anything from
there. Something arises in their mind, in their
thoughts. Nobody knows what it is, right?
It arises in their mind, so
nobody knows what anyone else's thoughts are. Don't
look down on each other. That person could
be detachment right in their mind, in the very
thought process you're interacting with them. That's
the mental formation.  When our thoughts arise, we
are the ones who lose merit. Therefore,
don't look down on anyone. Now, it's
almost time for us to go on our walking meditation.
We walk, focusing on each
step. If we have any distracting
thoughts—understand,
whatever thoughts arise—that is, these distracting thoughts are
not intentional. Yen, let me explain what distracting thoughts are and
what thoughts are. A distracting thought is when
we are walking like
this and it spontaneously arises in our minds.
That's called a distracting thought. But when that distracting
thought arises, and from that distracting thought a thought
arises, that's called an
idea. Do you understand? That
idea is what gives rise to
our karmic force, the guiding force. As for the distracting
thoughts, Yen
explained them to the audience before. Our body is like a
stream; it's just a fleeting thing, just a fleeting
thought. We can
let go of it, or we can contemplate it. For example, if a distracting
thought about remembering
someone arises, we can
turn to that thought.  That is our karmic attachment.
This experience of attachment will lead to suffering. That's it,
then we're done, back
to our meditation practice.
Do you understand? And when a desire arises, a
craving for a woman, or a
desire arises, and we follow
that to develop further, that's
called created karma. What is this created karma? What is the
idea? The idea? I have
this idea, I have that idea,
everyone. The idea arises
from the thought, everyone, do you understand? From the
thought, the idea arises. For example, when
Yen sees a pine tree like this,
she naturally has the thought, "It's so beautiful!"
This is just what the eyes see. The
thought arises from the distinction between beautiful and
ugly from past lives. Now, the thought, "
It's so beautiful," gives rise to this idea.
What is the idea? I'll take it home and make a
Christmas tree, do you understand? That's the idea that
arises from this thought. So
we eliminate these thoughts,
that is, above the thought, above the desire.
Never
mind, teacher, do you understand? That is, the desire is unavoidable, you
see. I'm just emphasizing this for the general public,
but this part is
actually something you can't practice at home. This is
just for the general public to learn from, but in
our daily lives, we're full of thoughts, so
how can we stop them? Every day we have
thoughts, right? How can we
make our husbands stop hating us?
Thoughts are everywhere, and that's just thoughts. That's what
fuels these thoughts, you know.
These thoughts will
continue to create more thoughts, so we can never
stop them. That means you have to stop them. Only then can you begin to practice
the Dharma of stopping. Only when you stop can you truly understand and attain enlightenment. And what about these thoughts?
Every day there's
this thought, this is mine, that's the name.
Although we are Buddhists, it's very
difficult to let go of this, right? That's why we
respect those who have renounced the world,
because we don't have the opportunity to practice the Dharma.
You see? There's
no such opportunity.  In practice, if the
karmic connection is absent, what can be said
about practicing correctly? That worm is
never there for lay people, never there,
because every day you have to generate so
many thoughts and ideas, that's why you
like to have a full and abundant stream of fantasies, right, Teacher? Fantasy must be
abundant,
ideas must be abundant, and then ideas
transform into fantasies, Teacher, right, Immortal,
right? It's like a never-ending cycle,
like waves, one wave after another
creating another on the surface,
never ending. What kind of wind is it?
Karmic wind, the wind of greed and desire, it creates
fantasies that never stop.
We must have a method to go far away from greed and
desire, only then can we deal with the thoughts and
fantasies, only then will they cease. Is that clear?
Because it's like this, you can't say, "I'm
at home, I also chant scriptures and worship Buddha, the
teachers also chant scriptures and worship Buddha the same way." From
now on, do you dare to think like that? No, I wouldn't
dare. There's no karmic connection to practice, let alone
talk about practicing.
That's like someone whose throat is opened to
allow food to pass through.
Teacher, we...  If you don't even have the opportunity to eat, how can you
know the taste? If
you don't have the opportunity to eat, how can you know the taste? If you
don't have the opportunity to practice the Dharma, how can you
know the taste of liberation?
Not knowing the taste of liberation
is the limitation of lay people. Lay people
only cultivate merit to
transform their suffering, but they
cannot truly grasp the taste of liberation. Do
you understand? From here, let's abandon
the mind that keeps complaining. Yen only encourages the
masses to achieve faith
in the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha, and that's enough to gain merit,
because lay people only cultivate
merit. As for our wisdom, it's just a matter of
getting rid of the old,
coarse, and crude thoughts, right? For
example, Yen is telling a story
about a husband who drank too much alcohol. It's about getting rid of old
thoughts and creating new
ones,
not eliminating them. That is,
remember, if you had 100 thoughts of old thoughts about your husband in one day,
today it's reduced to
99.8. Truly, you can live.  Being at ease with
that planter is not something we can do,
right? It's not like that at all. To help
us all clearly understand ourselves,
our own karmic connections, after this session, in the
next session, Yen will have
us sit and contemplate and observe ourselves, our
own karmic connections. That is, to
see what we are still clinging to,
what our karmic connections are, to
eliminate the mind of super-life attachments. If
you haven't seen yourself yet,
then you know how to
best eliminate them and distance yourself from them. Slowly, you
understand, when you don't see yourself, you
don't see your own karmic connections
in the present moment, you start clinging
to those connections again, from morning
to night. This karmic connection of yours is
distant, you are distant like this,
but if you don't distance yourself, you go into
something else, you go into that, do you understand? That's what
we've achieved in three days of practice,
observing karmic connections like that.
That's already a great victory, an unimaginable result. That's what it is.
We already know how to observe and
think, and this is the foundation for
us to be able to practice the Dharma of gradual detachment.
It's about gradually detaching from the Dharma. For example,
Yen just said that if you
fall and hit your head on the ground,
then your head and
hands are all down on the ground.
Gradually detaching from the Dharma means lifting your head up. You
have to know which parts of your body can be
lifted first. Your hands are
bent and you're falling like this, your hands and feet are bent and you're falling, so you ca
n't get off. You
start slowly. Look at
which part is lifted first, see
which part is detached first, and then stand
up steadily. That means
you observe and see how you gradually detach yourself.
That's why the five precepts of Buddhism
allow you to gradually detach yourself: not being
reborn, not stealing, not committing adultery,
not being deceitful, not being drunk or addicted.
That's so you can gradually detach yourself from
evil. See the assembly, okay?  But
usually, those who have practiced a little bit of cultivation
often go to the temple in the morning, to see their
teacher. That means they've reached a state of detachment,
but from that detachment, they
see the other side, the other side
is so rich and beautiful. Oh, how ugly I am! They
start practicing diligently for a while, then they
start to wake up. Oh no, I'm dead! The
past time has been terrifying, I've been so obsessed, I've been
completely absorbed in this practice. Now I'm finally
waking up. That means when you're awake,
you think you're deluded, and when you're suddenly deluded, you
think you're awake. It's not
easy. Oh my god, I'm so engrossed,
I've forgotten everything! So
I start to tidy up my mind, get
beautiful, and then I start having
fun again, getting back with friends, drinking tea and
alcohol. Sometimes I say, "Enough of this!" But then
it starts to
gradually lure them in again. That's
why the Buddha taught that sentient beings are
all about going in and out, going in and out, going in and out, going in and out. After
practicing a little bit, they go out and
enjoy what they've already enjoyed.  The path
widens, going in and out.
When will people
have to cultivate themselves to become the lower beings
in this forest? Only then will they have a way out,
master. Otherwise, they'll just keep going in and
out, going in and
out again. Yen is here with the community, knowing how to observe herself from now until the end of her life. Don't go in, go out slowly. That means if you can observe yourself, then you will go out slowly, but as long as you go out,
like an old woman, you go,
resting and walking, but as long as you go out and see
people at home, try to do that, it's good.
As long as you go out, don't go back in.
Now, we are the
elders, so I will tell you
this: you elders just go around this place. I
have to go now, I
won't stay here with you elders. I
have to follow the person who is there.
You elders just go like that, and when your minds
are focused down and you
think of something else, then you come
back. Okay, elders, just call it learning.
Virtue obeys and goes up the mountain.  Just practicing mindfulness is
good enough, right? It's like going
out. As for walking, we walk
a little further apart, not too close. We
have to keep a distance from each other, at
least from here to the corner of the pine tree where Yen is
sitting. From Yen to the corner of the pine tree
right here, we don't walk too close together.
Then, while walking, we can
observe that this side is like this, that
side is like that, and we know our mind is
wandering, and the other person is
just forgetting about their foot movement.
Do you understand, teacher?
Meditation isn't easy; it requires a very
high level of concentration. You have to practice continuously and diligently for 5, 7, or even
10 years to be able to
concentrate and practice meditation.
And this is just a test for us.
Five to 10 years is
not enough for a novice, but if the
practitioner has already attained the full range of enlightenment, then
even the Great Immortal had to go
into the forest for 7 years. The Great Immortal had to go into the forest for 7 years, to
use his inner resources.  The five realms have just
attained Arhatship. The great assembly sees it,
but doesn't see it. It's not
our karmic connection that makes us
feel so proud even before entering the forest for a day. It's
not that easy. That's
why the merit of these beings is what allows them to receive offerings from
heaven and earth. I'll
explain it to the great assembly like this:
When a practitioner has already
practiced, why can they still satisfy their hunger even without food? They
meditate and contemplate. But in reality,
other realms also come to them in
many ways. From other realms,
they nourish the body of the practitioner with various
foods and flavors, making the body
full, not hungry or tired. You
see? That's why such a practitioner receives offerings from
heaven and earth. It's
not that they don't feel hunger. Your stomach doesn't feel
hunger, does it? Practicing doesn't cause
atherosclerosis; you don't feel
hunger. The feeling comes from having karmic merit, so when
other realms offer food,
they are provided for and don't feel hungry.
At first, something must have happened: someone was starving, and
then during that hunger,
evil thoughts arose, and they just became
numb, unable to feel or speak. But that person
was weakened and exhausted, while the other person was
just like that, but not weakened,
still healthy and normal. Do you understand?
Not eating but still healthy and
unaffected – that shows
they received offerings.  It's not just the
gods in heaven who make offerings to the deities;
people can also make offerings to their teachers,
right? That's why these monks do
n't get tired from their practice. That's
why, no wonder the monks eat one meal and
still get fat even when they go into the forest. They're
even fatter than the monks of old! Anyone who sees this will see that
their monks are still fat, not working hard,
but still working tirelessly. It's not just a little
bit, folks! If
you're a little hungry, your mind will be
clouded and obscured. You won't understand anything; you'll be so
hungry that your mind can't think of
anything, or so tired that you can't think of
anything. But the monks don't seem to be clouded; they just keep working.
That's because of their practice, they have merit.
When the Buddha revealed the path of
asceticism, he practiced the same path and
attained right view. His body was beautiful,
very beautiful, and he even got fatter. So
we,
as Buddhists, have less merit and less good fortune.
This is also a very excellent merit for
lay people.  At home, in this world, the masses, it's very
important for us to achieve
faith in the Three Jewels. Whoever cultivates
this mind, making it abundant and full, to attain the
Buddha's teachings, will
achieve the fruit of the practice of the Dao Hoai, meaning they will
enter the stream of sainthood, but
at a lower level. The Arhats and
Bodhisattvas are different. Even lay
practitioners of the Stream-Entering stage can achieve
this, but they must practice generosity and have a joyful heart to achieve
faith and a
pure mind. Then, this person will go through
seven more lifetimes: this lifetime to the next,
then to the heavenly realm, then down to the human realm,
doing various good deeds, and so on and so forth, until the
seventh lifetime, when they attain
Arhatship. We practice in whatever circumstances, and we all have blessings and benefits. But we must remember that when we have practiced like this, when we go to the temple, we don't cling to worldly knowledge.
The monks don't have
much worldly knowledge, so when
we work with them,
there are things they don't know about the
worldly aspect.  We must respectfully ask for permission from the masters,
do you understand?
Respectfully, because they were
not born to do worldly work
anymore; they have abandoned those things from
previous lives, do you understand? It's
like when you become a monk now, you have to give up
your profession, even if you don't cook, you have to
give up being a teacher, you
have to give up being a department head, you have to give up being a director, you
have to give up being a provincial party secretary, only then can you become a monk. That means they
have already transcended worldly life, do you understand? That's
just practice; if
they don't practice, they won't become proficient, but once they practice,
they become very quick. That's
our masters. There's no such thing as
catching a thief empty-handed; they don't have
any knowledge in this world. But to
do something, it's not impossible,
right?
Therefore, they just don't practice, they do
n't practice, because
their daily thoughts aren't
focused on that, but on something else. Their
current task is spiritual practice, you know? So,
let's...  When we go down to the temple, we have the
opportunity to interact with the
monks, so we must know what the monks are doing and
what we are doing.
So now, let us dedicate
this merit. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We respectfully address all Buddhas.
Today, we are practicing on
Bodhi Mountain, we are blessed with the
Great Sangha. Now, we
praise the merits of the Three Jewels according to the Buddha's teachings.
We pray that all the
gods and all beings may
benefit from our devotion and enjoy the blessings
of the merits of praising the Three Jewels, for
we have understood the merits of the Three Jewels. [
Music]
I [Applause]
[Music]